Q1. What is the different types of Mathematics found in Quantitative Finance?
A1. The fields of mathematics most used in quantitative finance are those of probability theory,
    and differential equations. And, of course, numerical methods are usually needed for producing numbers.
    
    Here is a list of the various approaches to modelling and a selection of useful tools.
    The distinction between a 'modelling approach' and a 'tool' will start to become clear.
    
    Modelling approaches:
    1. Probabilistic
    2. Deterministic
    3. Discrete: difference equations
    4. Continuous: differential equations
    
    Useful tools:
    1. Simulations
    2. Approximations
    3. Asymptotic analysis
    4. Series Solutions
    5. Discretization methods
    6. Green's Function
    
Q2. What is Arbitrage?
A2. Arbitrage is making a sure profit in excess of the risk-free rate of return. In the language
    of quantiative finance we can say an arbitrage opportunity is a portfolio of zero value today
    which is of positive value in the future with positive probability and of negative value in
    the future with zero probability.
    
    The assumption that there are no arbitrage opportunities in the market is fundamental to 
    classical finance theory. This idea is popularly known as 'there's no such thing as free lunch.
    
    There are several types of arbitrage that we can think of. Here is a list and description
    of most important.
    
    1. Static arbitrage: an arbitrage that does not require rebalancing of positions.
    2. Dynamic arbitrage: an arbitrage that requires trading instruments in the future, generally
                          contingent on market states.
    3. Statistical arbitrage: It's simply a likely profit in excess of the risk-free return as
                              predicted by past statistics.
    4. Model-independent arbitrage: an arbitrage which does not depend on any mathematical model
                                    of financial instruments to work. For example, an exploitable
                                    violation of put-call parity or a violation of the relationship
                                    between spot and forward prices or between bonds and swaps.
                                    
    Some reasons for not implementing strategies:
    1. Ouoted prices are wrong or not tradable.
    2. Option and stock prices were not quoted synchronously.
    3. There is a bid-offer spread you have not accounted for.
    4. Your model is wrong, or there is a risk factor you have not accounted for.
    
Q3. What is put-call parity?
A3. Put-call parity is a relationship between the prices of a European-style call option and a European-style
    put option, as long as they have the same strike and expiration.
    
    Call Price - Put Price = Stock Price - Strike Price(present valued from expiration)
    C - P = S - Ke^(-r(T-t))
    
    In terms of the implied volatility, calls and puts with the same strike and expiration must have the 
    same implied volatility. The beauty of put-call parity is that it is a model-independent relationship.
    To value a call on its own we need a model for the stock price, in particular its volatility. The same
    is true for valuing a put.
    
    In practice options don't have a single price, they have two prices, a bid and an offer(a ask). This means
    that when you looking for violations of put-call parity you must use bid(offer) if you are going to short
    (long) the options. This makes the calculations a little bit messier. If you think in terms of implied
    volatility then it's much easier to spot violations of put-call parity. You must look for non-overlapping
    implied volatility ranges. For example, suppose that the bid/offer on a call is 22%/25% in implied volatility
    terms and that on a put (same strike and expiration) is 21%/23%. There is an overlap between these two ranges
    and so no arbitrage opportunity. However, if the put prices were 19%/21% then there would be a violation of
    put-call parity and hence an easy arbitrage opportunity. Don't expect to find many of such simple free-money
    opportunities in practice though.

Q4: What is the Central Limit Theorem and what are its implication for Finance?
A4: The distribution of the average of a lot of random numbers will be normal (also known as Guassian) even when
    the individual numbers are not normally distributed.
    
    In finance we often assume that equity returns are normally distribtued. We could argue that this ought to be
    the case by saying that returns over any finite period, one day, say, are made up of many, many trades over
    smaller time periods, with the result that the returns over the finite timescale are normal thanks to the
    Central Limit Theorem. The same argument in exchange rates, or interest rates, or risk of default, etc. We
    find ourselves using the normal distribution quite naturally for many financial processes.
    
    As often with mathematical 'laws' there is the 'legal' samll print, in this case the conditions under which
    the Central Limit Theorem applies.
      1. The random numbers must all be drawn from the same distribution.
      2. The draws must all be independent.
      3. The distribution must have finite mean and standard deviation.
    
    Think in terms of logarithms of the random numbers.
    Logarithms of random numbers are themselves random(with logarithms of strictly positive numbers). So if you
    add up lots of logarithms of random numbers you will get a normal distribution. But, of course, a sum of 
    logarithms is just the logarithm of a product, therefore the logarithm of the product must be normal, and
    this is the definition of lognormal, the product of positive random numbers converges to lognormal.
    
    This is important in finance because a stock price after a long period can be thought of as its value on some
    starting day multiplied by lots of as its value on some starting day multiplied by lots of random numbers,
    each representing a random return. So whatever the distribution of returns is, the logarithm of the stock
    price will be normally distributed. We tend to assume that equity returns are normally distributed, and
    equivalently, equities themselves are lognormally distributed.
    
Q5: How is Risk defiend in mathematical terms?
A5: In finance, risk refers to the possibility of a monetary loss associated with investments.

    The most common measure of risk is simply standard deviation of portfolio returns. The higher this is,
    the more randomness in a portfolio, and this is seen as a bad thing.
    
    Financial risk comes in many forms:
    (1) Market Risk: The possibility of loss due to movements in the market, either as a whole or a specific
                     investments.
    (2) Credit Risk: The possibility of loss due to default on a financial obligation.
    (3) Model Risk: The possibility of loss due to errors in mathematical models, often models of derivatives.
                    Since these models contain parameters, such as volatility, we can also speak of parameter
                    risk, volatility risk, etc.
    (4) Operational Risk: The possibility of loss due to people, procedures or systems. This includes human
                          error and fraud.
    (5) Legal Risk: The possibility of loss due to legal action or the meaning of legal contracts.
    
    Understand the difference between risk randomness and uncertainty all of which are important.
    In finance we tend to concentrate on risk with probabilities we estimate, we then have all the tools of
    statistics and probability for quantifying various aspects of that risk. In some financial models we do
    attempt to address the uncertain. For example, the uncertain volatility work of a stock. Here volatility
    is uncertain, is allowed to lie within a specified range, but the probability of volatility having any
    value is not given. Instead of working with probabilities we now work with worst-case scenarios. Uncertainty
    is therefore more associated with the idea of stress testing portfolios. CrashMetrics is another example of
    worst-case scenarios and uncertainty.
    
    A starting point for a mathematical definition of risk is simply as standard deviation. This is because of the
    results of the Central Limit Theorem(CLT). The normal distribution being symmetrical about the mean, the potential
    downside can be measured in terms of the standard deviation.
    
    However, this is only meaningful if the conditions for the CLT are satisfied. For example, if we only have a small
    number of investments, or if the investments are correlated, or if they don't have finite variance, then standard
    deviation may not be relevant.
    
    Another mathematical definition of risk is semi variance, in which only downside deviations are used in the calculation.
    This definition is used in the Sortino performance measure.
    
Q6: What is Value at Risk and How is it used?
A6: Value at Risk, or VaR for short, is a measure of the amount that could be lost from a position, portfolio, desk, bank, etc.
    VaR is generally understood to mean the maximum loss an investment could incur at a given confidence level over a specified
    time horizon. There are other risk measures used in practice but this is the simplest and most common.
    
    VaR calculations often assume that returns are normally distributed over the time horizon of interest. Inputs for a VaR
    calculation will include details of the portfolio composition, the time horizon, and parameters governing the distribution
    of the underlyings. The latter set of parameters includes average growth rate, standard deviations(volatilities) and correlations.
    If the time horizon is short you can ignore the growth rate, as it will only have a small effect on the final calculation.
    
Q7: What is CrashMetrics?
A7:

Q8: What is a Coherent Risk Measure and what are its properties?
A8:

Q9: What is Modern Portfolio Thoery?
A9:

Q10: What is the Capital Asset Pricing Model?
A10: 

Q11: What is Arbitrage Pricing Theory?
A11:

Q12: What is Maximum Likelihood Estimation?
A12:

Q13: What is Cointegration?
A13: Two time series are cointegrated if a linear combination has constant mean and standard deviation.
     In other words, the two series never stray too far from one another.
     Cointegrations is a useful technique for studying relationships in multivariate time series,
     and provides a sound methodology for modelling both long-run and short-run dynamics in a financial system.
     This can be the basis for pairs trading.
     
     The correlations between financial quantities are notoriously unstable.
     Nevertheless correlations are regularly used in almost all multivariate financial problems.
     An alternative statistical measure to correlation is conintegration.
     This is probably a more robust measure of the linkage between two financial quantities 
     but as yet there is little derivative theory on the concept.
     Two stocks may be perfectly correlated over short timescales yet diverge in the long run,
     with one growing and the other decaying.
     Conversely, two stocks may follow each other, never being more than a certain distance apart,
     but with any correlation, positive, negative or varying.
     If we are delta hedging then maybe the short timescale correlation matters, 
     but not if we are holding stocks for a long time in an unhedged portfolio.
     To see whether two stocks stay close together we need a definition of stationarity.
     A time series is stationary if it has finite and constant mean, standard deviation and autocorrelation function.
     In a sense, stationary series do not wander too far from their mean.
     Testing for the stationarity of a time series Xt involves a linear regression to find the coefficient a, b and c in
     Xt = aXt-1 + b + ct.
     If it is found that |a| > 1 then the series is unstable. If -1 <= a < 1 then the series is stationary.
     If a = 1 then the series is non stationary. As with all things statistical, we can only say that our value for a is accurate
     with a certain degree of confidence. To decide whether we have got a stationary or non-stationary series requires us to look
     at the Dickey-Fuller statistic to estimate the degree of confidence in our result.
     So far, so good, but from this point on the subject of conintegration gets complicated.
     
     How is this useful in finance?
     Even though individual stock prices might be non stationary it is possible for a linear combination(i.e., a portfolio) to be
     stationary. Can we find λi, with Σ{i = 1 to N}λi = 1 is stationary?
     If we can, then we say that the stocks are cointegrated.
     
Q14: What is the Kelly criterion?
A14:

Q15: Why hedge?
A15:

Q16: What is Marking to market and how does it affect risk management in derivatives trading?
A16:

Q17: What is the Efficient Markets Hypothesis?
A17:

Q18: What are the most useful performance measures?
A18:

Q19: What is a utility function and how is it used?
A19:

Q20: What is Brownian Motion and what are its uses in Finance?
A20:

Q21: What is Jensen's Inequality and what is its role in finance?
A21:

Q22: What is Ito's Lemma?
A22:

Q23: What does risk-neutral valuation work?
A23:

Q24: What is Girsanov's Theorem, and why is it important in Finance?
A24:

Q25: What are the Greeks?
A25:

Q26: Why do quants like closed-form solutions?
A26:

Q27: What are the forward and backward equations?
A27:

Q28: Which Numerical Methods should I use and when?
A28:

Q29: What is Monte Carlo Simulation?
A29: 

Q30: What is the Finite-Difference Methods?
A30: 

Q31: What is a Jump-Diffusion Model and how does it affect option values?
A31:

Q32: What is meant by "Complete" and "Incomplete" markets?
A32:

Q33: What is volatility?
A33: 

Q34: What is the volatility smile?
A34: 

Q35: What is GARCH?
A35:

Q36: How do I dynamically hedge?
A36:

Q37: What is Dispersion Trading?
A37:

Q38: What is Bootstrapping using discount factors?
A38:

Q39: What is the LIBOR market model and its principal applications in Finance?
A39:

Q40: What is menat by the 'Value' of a contract?
A40:

Q41: What is calibration?
A41:

Q42: What if the Market pricie of Risk?
A42:

Q43: What is the difference between the equilibrium approach and the non-arbitrage
     approach to modelling?
A43: 

Q44: How good is the assumption of Normal Distributions of Financial Returns?
A44: 

Q45: How robust is the Black-Scholes model?
A45: 

Q46: Why is the lognormal distribution important?
A46: 

Q47: What are copulas and how are they used in Quantitative Finance?
A47: 

Q48: What is Asymptotic Analysis and How is it used in Financial Modelling?
A48: 

Q49: What is a free-boundary problem and what is the optimal-stopping time for an Ameircan Option?
A49: 

Q50: What are low discrepancy numbers?
A50: 
    


















